= Traceroute

A Rake task that helps you find dead routes and unused actions in your Rails 3+ app.


== Features

This Rake task investigates your Rails application's routes definition, then shows you the unused routes and unreachable action methods.


== Supported versions

* Ruby 1.8.7, 1.9.2, 1.9.3, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8 (trunk)

* Rails 3.0.x, 3.1.x, 3.2.x, 4.0.x, 4.1.x, 5.0.x, 5.1.x, 5.2.x, 6.0, 6.1 (master)


== Install

Put this line in your Gemfile:
  gem 'traceroute'

Then bundle:
  % bundle


== Usage

Just run the following command in your Rails app directory.
  % rake traceroute

If you want the rake task to fail when errors are found.

  % FAIL_ON_ERROR=1 rake traceroute

== What's gonna happen then?

Consider you have the following routes.rb and a controller:

  # config/routes.rb
  YourRailsApp::Application.routes.draw do
    resources :users, :only => [:index, :show, :new, :create]
    match 'products/:id/purchase' => 'catalog#purchase', :as => :purchase
  end

  # app/controllers/users_controller.rb
  class UsersController < ApplicationController
    def index
      @users = User.page(params[:page])
    end

    def index2
    end

    def show
      @user = User.find(params[:id])
    end
  end

Running the Rake task will print something like this for you:

  Unused routes (3):
    users#create
    users#new
    catalog#purchase
  Unreachable action methods (1):
    users#index2

OMG super helpful, isn't it?

== How do I tell it to ignore routes?

Some gems out there that inject routes or actions into our app for testing. Jasmine-Rails does this. They can give you false negatives when running this in development mode. It can be useful to ignore said routes or actions.

Create a .traceroute.yaml (or .traceroute.yml or .traceroute) file in your root directory.

  # .traceroute.yaml
  ignore_unreachable_actions:
  - ^jasmine_rails\/
  ignore_unused_routes:
  - ^users#index

Both yaml headers accept a list of regexes.


== FAQ

  Q: It makes a fuss over the default route at the very bottom. WTF?
  A: Please do not use that. Did you read the comment in your routes.rb? Actually this task will help you a lot to remove that evil route.

  Q: "command not found: traceroute" Did you mean: tracert
  A: I'm afraid you're using the wrong operating system.


== Notes

  Routes prefix with `rails/` are ignored. These are generated by rails in development mode. We don't want to fail the build on these.

== Questions, Feedback

Feel free to message me on Github (amatsuda) or Twitter (@a_matsuda)  ☇3☇3☇3


== Contributing to Traceroute

* Fork, patch, then send me a pull request.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Akira Matsuda. See MIT-LICENSE file for further details.
